Well, I'm the first, and I thought that I would try to describe as best as I could the three broad general types of collectors that I encountered in my life, of whom my mentor here, Ray Nash, represents Wonder Woman.
And I think her thought from the West was probably as far on the opposite spectrum as it was possible to be.
There are, I'm sure, as many different types of collectors as there are types of books.
And I don't mean to imply that these collectors don't, to some degree, overlap in their interests or their collecting passions.
But the first group, it seems to me, was in the Nash camp.
And that was a camp of collectors who really looked at the book as an exemplar of the culture that produced it and really evaluated it.
as a product of a culture and a thing of beauty.
When we looked at books in Nash's class, we were primarily examining books as objects.
We weren't examining the text.
I can't remember ever talking about the text.
Nash used to say, if you read the damn books, you wouldn't have time to collect them.
But every aspect of the book really was examined, and that was interesting to me, right from the binding to the flyers, the endpapers, the inscription, the providence of the paper, and the tests of those of you who took the course were completely open book tests.
You could bring whatever you wanted, and that would be five objects in the table, and you would write about them to your heart's content.
And they were tricky.
Nash was a tricky, tricky professor.
But that kind of collecting is certainly the most general, I think.
It's open to all centuries.
It's open to all kinds of books.
Some of them you can no longer afford.
But I remember when I graduated, I was second lucky then.
I got a call from a dealer here who offered me the Counts Without Trust for $1,500, and I regret to this day, I regret every week that I didn't take him on that offer.
So that's, I think, category number one.
The category number two, I think, is books by subject.
These are people who collect books because they're interested in the history of ophthalmology or physics or 18th century English literature.
I think in this category, the condition of the book is important, but I think really what they are, they are collecting in a theme, and they are collecting in a discipline.
And I would say that most collectors fall into this category, the collector by theme.
The third group, I think, to which Herb West belonged is, I think, the most specialized and probably the most adventurous.
And these are the people who have collected authors, and
Collected it because of their words, because of their writing, because of the, I guess, the most intrinsic part of the book, which is to convey through our phonetic alphabet of the thoughts of one human being as expressed in particular words, put in a particular order.
And I'm sure that the West, like most people who collect in this area, collected slowly, laboriously, probably cheaply, if he was ever terribly concerned about conditions.
but representatively.
And if you look through the Special Collection catalog, it's amazing the authors that Herb West collected and then gave to the library.
Here's a brief list, and I'm sure I'm omitting some.
Frank Dovey,
a great cowboy writer from Canada, from the story of a cow pony, Charles W., Arabia Desserta, the two great English editors, Catholic David and Edward Garnett, people who really started Jeffrey Keynes in his role as a bibliographer, and Morrison in his role as a critic, J.J.
Lycus, the woodcut, Henry Miller, John Copperman, the well-imposed, Kenneth Flowers, George Santayana, those were just a few of the major collections
that West presented to the library, which we have now in Special Collections.
And this is clearly the result of a very eclectic and a very omnivorous mind.
And if you read West's essays on literature,
you realize that not only was he an eclectic and adventurous collector, he was a very iconoclastic critic at the time.
His essays are really wonderful and I think greatly underrated.
I find it curious too that this is such a broad spectrum of authors.
I mean you head here
People writing about the American West and the Arabian desert, you have editors, you have woodcutters, you have chronographers and philosophers, you have naturalists and explorers.
Stephen Crane was another great collection that West formed, or at least I've met it.
I think what they all had in common, if you had to think of one thing that connects
All of these collections, one to the other, was that they were all realists.
They all wrote about life as they had lived it and as they had seen it.
He wasn't interested in experimental fiction for the sake of that.
He wasn't interested in fiction that I think diverged from reality as the author knew it.
And if you read his essays about Crane and Dobie and Charles Dobie, it's clear that one of the reasons he was so passionate about these authors was without traveling very far from Hanover, he was able to receive a very accurate picture of what they were describing, either in fictional form or in non-fictional form.
I think the other thing I want to stay in hand with was that
West was not a specialist.
If you went to his classes, as I did, it's clear that this was a very wide range in mind of a true generalist.
I mean, a person who said, like Montaigne, I take all due to the knowledge of my province, who was clear in his opinions, who was often vitriolic in his opinions, but he, like
A wonderful generation of people that I think started with, William James,
who included Albert Bluff, Whitehead, Roman Gautamson, Roman Chomsky, Ray Nash, never received an advanced degree, never went to graduate school in literature, but I think began teaching here right after he graduated and augmented and displayed his erudition through reading and through continued application to discover what he thought was new and undervalued.
This is something where we have to ask the question, would a man like Herb West ever find a place at a college like Dartmouth today?
Would Dartmouth ever hire Herb West today than would Dartmouth ever put up today with the shenanigans that without West, not only displayed from the podium, but certainly displayed privately.
I find it curious too that while I was here, Nash and West were both, I think, the premier collectors, at least the premier collectors in public.
I don't think they spoke two words to each other at all the time.
Nash never mentioned West, West never mentioned Nash.
And even though the library, God bless it, is the beneficiary of both great collections, it is as if they existed in two entirely separate orbits.
And I'll end with a great quote, which has nothing to do, that Leonard Bassett told me, I was
I would like to start just by echoing what Ann said
about the general madness.
If you haven't acquired it, you certainly should.
It is a wonderful book, and Nick referred to it as having to criticize this episodic, and it is episodic, and I think it's wonderfully episodic.
It is a collection of fascinating stories, just stories about collectors, stories about collections,
It's not the kind of book that I would read from cover to cover.
It's the kind of book that I keep beside the chair where I do most of my read.
And it's just fascinating to pick it up and go through another story about another collector or another collection.
And there are many interrelationships where the collection is formed by one person and then passes to another.
They are simply fascinating stories, I think.
And while I'm at it,
I want to mention one other item that Nick Bazemans didn't talk about.
And this is biblio magazine.
I don't know how many of you have encountered this.
It's about a year old.
This happens to be the most recent issue, and it has a piece in it by Ed Bazemans, who's written for more than one of the issues.
This came out as a quarterly last year.
It's now monthly.
You can buy it in the Dartmouth book store.
And it's a magazine for book collectors.
It is about book collections and book collectors.
And that is the entire theme of the magazine.
It's beautifully done.
It also has a lot of ads for Antwerpian book dealers that you might or might not have heard of.
I find it fascinating.
The dealer with whom Nick Van Spane
has been transacting business for a long time, as so have I. In fact, I think I've been buying books from Elisabeth in Exeter, New Hampshire for over 30 years.
They have expressed the hope that the owner of Biblio has deep pockets and will keep this magazine going for a long time.
I can't believe it has a tremendous subscription list, even though they have a very interesting web page.
that you can consult, you can actually download some of the articles from their web page, and you can subscribe to the magazine on their web page, which is the way I did it.
The hope is that whoever is sponsoring this has enough love of what he is doing that that magazine will persist.
It is simply a capacity.
I've never seen anything that was as attractive for a book collector.
in the form of a journal or magazine.
This is just aimed at book collectors.
It's not aimed at librarians, it's not aimed at publishers, it's aimed at authors, it's aimed at book collectors.
And I think it's a truly wonderful angle.
I didn't know Herb West very well.
I was here for a few years when he was here.
Actually, I don't consider Herb West more as a book dealer than anything else.
My great regret was
that I came late to recognize that he was a book dealer.
I have bad collections of booksellers' catalogs.
The only one I could run across quickly was heard by Catalog 65.
So you can see that I did come rather late to his book-dealing career.
It's dated fall 1970.
It is frankly not a very interesting catalog, but it has wonderful books in it.
Herb did not do as some wonderful booksellers do and give you long, interesting descriptions of the book.
He gave you the title and he gave you the price and occasionally a little bit of the condition of the book.
But when I look at this now and I see the prices for 1970, these were very pricey books in 1970.
I can understand why Herb paid good prices to the dealers in London, because he was getting much better prices here in New Hampshire.
And that today, the prices look very modest.
But in 1970, these prices would be a little daunting, I think, for most collectors.
I did love the comments
that Herb offered actually at the beginning of this catalog and in his book, About Book Collective.
And as David said, he had an approach to book collection that was very different, I think, from what you find in most of Nick Fassman's story.
He was not obsessed with a particular author.
He was not obsessed with a particular topic.
He was collecting books that he thought were wonderful.
Some of you may remember, in 1988,
we had a 50th anniversary of the Friends of the Dartmouth Library, and there were three lectures given, and one was by Jim Friedman on his book collective.
And Jim Friedman's book collecting was somewhat along the lines of what Herb was doing.
Jim talked about the books that had made the greatest impression on him, and most of them he encountered when he was a student.
you'll find a very similar memoir by John Irving in a sort of short autobiographical book, or you could call it a long autobiographical article, called, as I recall, The Secret Girlfriend, in which he talks about his years of Exeter and the books that he found wonderful when he was at Exeter.
And he goes out a little beyond Exeter, but it was interesting to me that
The books Jim Friedman was most impressed with, he encountered it as a student.
The same is true of John Irving, and my own experience is the same.
I have two specialized collections based on two authors, for I wanted everything from each of those authors.
I wanted all the books, I wanted all the published work, I wanted as much manuscript material as I could get my hands on, I wanted drawings and original drawings,
I know there's so much specialized collections, and some are along the line on a very small scale of the sort of things that you find in Nick Badgain's book.
But the bulk of my collection is books that I'm just very impressed with, and most of them were bought before I finished graduate school.
They're almost all known, a few essays.
But those are the books that I enjoy so much,
just having.
I reread some of them occasionally, but mostly I just enjoy having.
You look along the shelves and you remember being so impressed with these individual books.
Reading about other people's collections of that sort may not be
terribly interesting, although I found it was interesting to see what Jim Friedman had said about some of the books that I liked or really liked.
And I was particularly fascinated by the contrast between what Jim Friedman thought of the cancer in the Rhine when he was a student and what John Irving thought about the cancer in the Rhine when he was a student.
My sense to the extent of I was John Irving on that one.
But I find it interesting to look along people's shelves and recognize the books that I once read and was so impressed by that I just wanted to hang on to those books for the rest of my life.
And I find a lot of that in what Herb is talking about.
Most of his books deal with book collecting, book dealers, and as David said, he is just so fascinating
with those individual authors, with what they had to say, and he's very good at telling you what he found in those authors.
Just as Jim Friedman and John Irving were so good at telling you what they found in their authors, there is an excitement in reading about that kind of book collecting, I think, that you don't always find in the story of how somebody put together the greatest collection of some author
simply by painstakingly buying every single edition of every single book and getting every autograph that could be collected.
Those are fascinating undertakings, and I enjoy doing that very much.
But there is something wonderful about reading the thoughts, the recollections of Herb West or Jim Friedman or John Irving and recognizing some of those titles and thinking, yes,
Yes, I share those sorts of feelings or thinking this is absurd.
I read that book and I didn't see anything that this particular author of culture is talking about.
So I think this is a wonderful conjunction of Nick Manisbane and a wonderful book of his and Herb West and a whole history of book collecting
many different purposes for the book collecting, but I suppose one commonly shared characteristic, which is the enormous excitement that goes with all of these kinds of book collecting.
An excitement that I guess verges on madness sometimes, and as Nick said, sometimes still feels a little over the edge.
Fortunately, Jim and John Irving have not gone over the edge, and I don't think her ever quite went over the edge.
And so far, I've managed to keep going over the edge.
Thanks.
Could you identify yourself?
I'm not sure who's who up here.
Oh, I'm Peter Williamson.
Yes, I'm David Domain.
I'm Peter Williamson, a retired finance professor, and
Well, when Ann Mandel had called me asking me to participate in this, I was told that I would be representing the
younger generation of collectors, which isn't the same course that Professor Williamson and David Godine are young, but I had to graduate somewhat later than David from Dartmouth.
In any event, in preparation for today, I decided to try to track down what a definition of collecting was, if you will.
And there's a book that recently came out by Werner, Munster Werner, called Collecting an Unruly Passion, which basically goes into psychoanalyzing the collector and so forth.
And he defines collecting as being the selecting, gathering, and keeping of objects of subjective value, subjective value.
what's important to the collector, not so much the monetary value, but more or less the subjective value.
It seems to me what sets the younger collectors apart from the older generations is the fact that this notion of subjective value is becoming nonexistent over time.
And I say that because it has been, in recent years, an advent of books covering all different topics of collecting.
I am not strictly a book collector, for example.
I like metal lunch boxes from the 1960s, which at one time you could find at a yard sale for 25 cents, but now because three reference books have been written on lunch boxes from the 60s, you still have to pay four, five, six hundred dollars for the ones that you're looking for.
And with the information highway becoming increasingly expanded,
with the Antiques Grower Show that's on TV now, with all sorts of reference books that are coming up on all sorts of subjects, it's very difficult to find a category to focus in on and say, my, this is my category, I can assemble a collection very cheaply in satisfying my need.
So that's one of the problems, and that's one of the reasons why I think the younger generation is having a difficult time
assembling what has become known as traditional collections.
Coins, for example, are becoming very difficult to assemble a collection on a great level without spending a lot of money.
And I think, unfortunately, that has reached the book field as well when it comes to buying the first edition of a Stephen King.
And depending upon the title, you may have to pay $800, $900, $1000 for it, whereas
In years past, I think that collections could have been assembled on an economically more feasible level.
I don't know, maybe that's one of the reasons why these book collecting clubs that used to be very popular at college have become less and less popular, and I don't know if it's because of budgets or whatever have you, but the young collectors, I think, are having a harder time.
So one of the options for the young collector
Well, one is you can graduate college and land a job that pays an enormous amount of money and start collecting things in those traditional collecting fields because you know we'll be able over time to afford those.
Another area is to trailblaze by collecting something that other people have not been collecting.
And as I say, as time goes on, that's becoming increasingly more difficult.
Lunchboxes, as I say, as an example, one person did trailblaze, put together an enormous collection,
now he's working in a cereal box area.
I, because of my affiliation, of course, with Dartmouth, decided to collect Dartmouth College items, and fortunately have found that there are very few pure collectors, if you will, of Dartmouth College items, and I brought a few things with me today which I will share with you as I go forward.
The important thing, I think, for the younger collection, collector rather, is to become
a well-versed student in history and popular culture.
For example, if you're interested in popular culture, you should try to get your hands in every Vanity Fair magazine that you can get.
And you'll realize that if you go to an auction like I did, I knew exactly who Jerome Zipkin was, who died about a year ago.
And his materials and personal ones came to the auction block.
And I was able to pick up a few things.
If you don't want your own zip, then you can ask me after the talk.
The other thing is to develop a good memory.
It's a funny thing.
As a collector, you remember certain things.
I remember, for example, that one of my history professors 13 years ago showed me a type letter signed by Felix Frankfurter, which is located in the top of his filing cabinet.
in Reed Hall and I just remember that.
I remember that Professor Ralph has wonderful MGM photos signed from the 1930s.
You tend to remember where things are and you remember details and if you can remember certain things you might have a chance of finding it one day.
I had an interest in Armand Hammer when I was a student here.
I had taken a speech course
And I had done a paper on Arm & Hammer.
So when Arm & Hammer's autobiography came out in 1987, I bought it immediately.
He was sort of a collector, but more or less a person who bought and sold all sorts of things, primarily beginning with the Russian royal family's artifacts and so forth.
And in his autobiography, he talks about King Pabu, who was a great collector.
And the only difference between Farouk and the character that we heard about in terms of the stealing of the books is that Farouk illegally forced his people to give him collections and so forth.
In any event, Hammer had a relationship with them.
And I had read this.
He had sent his brother, Victor Hammer, to Cairo.
And his brother was greeted by an aide and a squadron of troops.
drawn up in his honor for his affection, like a visiting head of state, he was also presented with a solid gold hammer lining in a velvet-lined paste, and inscribed, Welcome to Cairo, Mr. Herring.
And that's written in Armengamer's book.
What just so happened is that I went to an auction in Massachusetts,
And there were three items in the auction, all coming from the Victor Hammer estate, including the colorful hammer that basically says, Hammer, Egypt, the 6th of March, 1940.
Well, the room was filled with dealers.
It had to have been 300 people in the audience that day.
And I attribute the fact that I knew who Armand Hammer was.
I knew Victor Hammer.
I knew what he had done in the Antiques Tribute.
And I had known that Amber had a contact group in Egypt and support.
So I put two and two together.
And sure enough, I ended up buying this, a nice cigarette case, and a nice pillbox for an absolutely minimal amount of money.
I think it was about $400 for the three pieces.
And that's only because I have an interest, and I knew when you remember and you read.
And a young collector can do that.
So...
In any event, what I've done is, and I won't take too much of your time, but I brought a few pieces with me, and a couple of them have a story that shows you what can happen if you really become too obsessed with collecting, as we've heard already.
This piece I acquired, this is the first catalog, what they call the first catalog, of the college, of Darwin College.
The printing press came to Hanover in 1779, and this brassard was, in fact, printed in 1779 by Judah Paddock here in Hanover, and was the only thing printed in Hanover during the lifetime of Eliezer Wheelock.
This piece...
came down to a family from John Long, a fellow who was class of 1780.
He's inscribed it on the back.
And it basically outlines all the graduates of the college from 1771 to 1779.
Now, I brought this not only because of the college history appeal, but also because of the dealer from whom I received this.
Again, you can tell why it is you have to be very careful to collect it too much.
This is a man who deals in antiques who wanted to have an 18th century house completely restored and filled with all pure New Hampshire 18th century antiques.
Basically spent his family's fortune doing it and it ended up giving him a divorce action.
And so you have to be very, very careful as a collector not to go overboard.
So I brought this not only for the history of the college but also because of the deal with whom I bought it.
These items, and I invite you to take a look at these at the break.
Essentially, I can't tell you any stories other than to say that they represent college history.
One is a full-page written letter by the Earl of Dartmouth in 1775, which is a fairly scarce and difficult signature to get by itself, let alone in a lower form.
It has nothing to do, it doesn't talk about the college at all, it's just a representative of
his handwriting and something that he had done.
Then there's a full-page letter from John Wheelock, the second president of the college, a deed signed by Eliezer Wheelock, which is the only item I have of his, a Dartmouth College lottery ticket from 1795, which was issued in order to raise money for the building of a new building here, signed by Jonathan Friedman, and a commencement ball ticket from 1801, which unfortunately doesn't
take you into the 18th century, but it's still feeling good for the commencement period.
So I invite you to take a look at those.
I was warned that I shouldn't just bring boring things to show you, so let me just tell you one last experience, and then I'll give the podium over to Rocky Steinhauer.
When I was in law school, a deal friend of mine said, I have a collection of document material that I'm sure you'll watch.
So I went out and I purchased it.
So let me just lead up to the mystery of... It was a complete archive, and in it were some preparatory sketches like this.
sketch.
Then it came a little bit more defined in stage two of this preparatory sketch.
And even more defined as it continued on.
Finally, color was added.
And I think you can now see that it's a cover to the jack-o'-lantern magazine.
of what the magazine cover would look like.
And then you have the magazine itself.
And basically, this was the archive of Ray Ring, who was class of 27.
He worked with Dr. Seuss on the jack-o'-lantern.
And I have all of his artwork for the jack-o'-lantern in the 20s.
Now, let me just tell you a little story.
I wrote the check to the dealer, and I was driving home, and I said to myself at the time, how am I going to now cover this check?
Which is something that collectors are always thinking about, which is why when you get solicited from leaders of groups to donate money, and sometimes you come up short at times, and as you will know, I'm spending it on nice days at the college, we'll get one at the end.
You know, that's what happens, and fortunately I had gone back home
and a friend of mine called, it was very ironic, and this happens sometimes, I had a large view of, a backshoulder view of Manchester that had sold that day for the same amount of money that I paid for the archive, so I was able to cover the check, thankfully.
But in any event, there were some more reference made about Sir Thomas Phillips, who was a character basically who lived from 1792 to 1872,
whose main goal in my life was to collect one copy of every book in the world at the time.
And what ended up happening, his family ended up living in squalor, and he drove the dealers from whom he bought these books into bankruptcy.
And on his father, one visitor said, when they visited his house, they said, every room was filled with heaps of papers, manuscripts, books, charters, packages, and other things, lying in heaps under your feet.
pile upon tables, beds, chairs, ladders, et cetera.
And in every room with piles of huge boxes up to the ceiling containing the more valuable volumes, it is quite sickening.
And quite honestly, that could, in fact, describe my apartment right now.
And that's one of the reasons why you have to be very, very careful, whether you're a young collector or an older collector, in terms of making sure that it doesn't become too much of an obsession at any event.
Thank you.
Remembering Herb West.
I thought the best way that I could do that when I was thinking about it after I got back from a long trip a few days ago was to go through my shelves and pick off some Herb West items.
I knew I had probably at least a dozen or so books of pamphlets.
My system of keeping my collections, which are out in shelves that are in bookshelves that are in almost every room of the house,
I always have a little file in the back of my head and I prided myself on being able to go and pick off the shell in any room whatever was called for on the occasion, but product goes before it falls.
The system doesn't work so well anymore.
And I certainly was looking for the book for the impecunious collector.
And I also wanted to find that pamphlet of the final lecture, which is quite a famous publication at this point.
I haven't read it for possibly 25 years.
but I couldn't find those.
But I have got a couple of things here which I think can help us to remember terribly.
One of them is issued by the Friends of the Dartmouth Library and it's called A Brief Guide to the Principal Collections of the Rare Books Department.
And it was published in 1964
in honor of Herbert Faulkner West, who was, as you all have been told, the founder of the Friends.
There was a little introductory note written by a classmate of hers, William J. Bryan, who was the head of the Friends Executive Committee at that time,
and who himself is a great benefactor to the library and a great collector.
And I want to, at your indulgence, just to read a couple paragraphs because I think this characterizes her very well.
Herbert Faulkner West is a complex and many faceted man.
Thus I thought as I stood one day beside him, while he bowed his head in meditation at the grave of his longtime colleague at Baker Library, Harold Goddard Rowe, in the village cemetery at Hartman, Vermont.
Every institution needs a rebel, and Herbert West well fulfilled this function at Dartmouth.
for eight college generations charting his independent course on the infancy of human experience.
But if he goes down in Darwin's history as a great teacher of rebel thinking, he also has made a place as one of the country's outstanding book collectors entirely to Darwin's prophet.
And I thought that I would just go through this just very quickly.
There's about a hundred or so collections that are mentioned and described briefly in here.
Henry Bestin's collection
Over 50 items of correspondence with Herbert Faulkner West in 1922, presented by Professor West.
George Blake, 26 items given in 1952 by Herbert Faulkner West.
The Blunt Collection, acquired in 1940 by a gift from Herbert Faulkner West.
Um...
Richard Curley, approximately 21st edition from Herbert Faulkner West.
J. Frank Dovey, about 90 books, magazines, and pamphlets, acquired principally through the generosity and interest of Herbert Faulkner West.
The Doherty Collection,
This comprehensive gathering of first editions and editions was presented by Herbert Faulkner West in 1942.
The Edward Garnett Collection formed by Herbert Faulkner West and given to the library in 1939.
The Graham Collection
assembled and donated to the library in 1938 by Herbert Faulkner West.
The Hudson Collection, subsequent gifts and purchases and special donations from Herbert Faulkner West.
Charles Jackson, 13 copies of author's presentation
inscribed to Professor, and this is Herbert Faulkner West.
J.J.
Lankett, over 2,000 items, acquired in 1952 through the generosity of the engraver himself, his son, and Herbert Faulkner West.
William McPhee,
collection, Herbert Faulkner West, along with Parabatic Rope.
And I dig your indulgence because what we're doing here through this litany is really standing by the monument of Herbert Faulkner West.
The Manning Collection, Richard H. Mandel, 1926, established this collection, and Herbert Faulkner West added many items to that collection.
The Henry Miller Collection, Herbert Faulkner West, The Principal of Elmore.
John Cooper Powers,
acquired by gifts especially from Herbert Faulkner West.
Kenneth Roberts collection.
The Santiana collection.
The Edward Thomas collection.
The Williamson collection given by Herbert Faulkner West.
I think that a lot of people have spoken today about his influence and his legacy to darkness.
And I think it's considerable.
And it's added really to the riches of our library.
And there are many other names of people who have done the same.
The name of Richard H. Mandel pops up
continuously through this reading.
And Harold Goddard is another great benefit.
I have got a couple of other things that I just want to bring to your attention.
Two Letters on an Albatross by William Henry Hudson and Robert Bonteen Cunningham Graham.
Edited with an introduction by Herbert Walton West from the West Home Publications.
I pulled this off the shelf and spent a little time with it because it represents a lot in here of what
Herb thinks about the literature, but also what he thinks about books and how he wants to have them made.
But just having heard a little lecture on the various kinds of collections, and what was that guy's name that had that collection that he acquired from various libraries?
The theme?
Longworth.
Stephen Blomford.
Well, listen to this, what I found is
surprise entry on the flyby of my book.
This, and this is in Herb's handwriting, which was abominable, so I made some of it.
This, the first, and let's not quote last, publication, a West Home publication, given to my friend, Ed Latham, with warmest regards
with all my good wishes for his own magnificent venture.
Herb West, December, 1955.
Well, I wonder why I had it.
I don't want to go into that.
However, I do want to just say, well, read again a little couple of things.
He says in his introduction, I had to wait until April 28, 1955 to fulfill a long-felt and intense desire to visit the grave of my old friend, Cunningham Graham, buried almost to the day, 19 years before, between the ancient priory walls of the Augustinian Monastery at Winschnahome on Lake of Montique in Puthershire, Scotland.
Altogether I spent an hour there thinking of my friend lying under his simple slat of native stone.
No more penny spot could be imagined for the last resting place of this remarkable Scotsman.
Before leaving, I placed a long daffodil on the grave.
I think of him as Harold runs
I think this might have been one of his ways of paying tribute to long-lost friends who have gone on.
And I think his standing here today in the library talking about the collections that Herb was responsible for forming is a way for us to take.
And then just one last book, since I really felt lucky that I found three of them, at least from my shelf, which I know has many more.
But this is a little book published by the Darden College Library.
It's called A Stephen Crane Collection by Herbert Faulkner.
And in this, he has an introduction,
product collection and also he has a real good bibliography of the whole collection so it's a very useful document and it shows that Herb was a real scholar and he wasn't only a wordsman but anybody that has to describe books and do a bibliographical description
lends themselves a tough job.
This book does belong in my collection because the fly leaf says, with admiration and regards to Roderick Steinhauer from Herb West, 1954.
I didn't help her that well.
And just to tell you why, because my mentor and advisor, Ray Nash, who lived down the hall from her up in the search for the ordinary, always steered me away from her.
He didn't want me to associate with her.
One time I wanted to take a course with her and I allowed Ray Nash to talk together.
So I'm very pleased that we took the time and took the occasion to remember a man on whose shoulder we all stand and to whom
I love the Dartmouth College Library so much.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
David Dodeen, Peter Wayneson, Robert Steinhauer, and Richard Thorner.
They should take another pick.
I have to...
will have refreshments in just a few minutes for the treasurer if i can add just a couple of little tidbits number one richard um uh herb west lives in a house on what was the name of the street and it had and his wife was a very very
handsome Swedish woman and their house would have a mural about this whole wall Stockholm photo mural which I had really never seen anything like that before and so I think the West Holm publications which I never thought about before probably are from the Swedish Holm and did operate as his
his home.
And that house was also the first place in my life where I've ever seen books housed in a bathroom.
As David said, he didn't care too much about the condition, or he wouldn't put the books in the bathroom.
The other thing is, and I'm not going to do it right now, but I think it's the mind on the way, but it may be in the impecunious attitude.
One of those books, gentlemen,
he pays tribute to Ray Nash.
So thank you very, very much for being with us, and I hope we'll see you all.